docs: add commands/gotchas to CLAUDE.md and simplify shared-package docs (#574)
linuxfoundation/lfx-v2-pcc-ui: CLAUDE.md

For first-time setup (1Password env vars, microservice stack, etc.) invoke the `/setup` skill — it handles prerequisites, clone, install, env vars, and the dev server.

## Commands

All commands run from the repo root via Turborepo:

| Command             | Purpose                                              |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `yarn start`        | Dev server with SSR + hot reload (Angular + Express) |
| `yarn build`        | Production build (all packages)                      |
| `yarn lint`         | Lint + auto-fix across the monorepo                  |
| `yarn lint:check`   | Lint without auto-fix (CI mode)                      |
| `yarn check-types`  | TypeScript type-check only (no emit)                 |
| `yarn format`       | Prettier write across the repo                       |
| `yarn format:check` | Prettier check (CI mode)                             |
| `yarn e2e`          | Playwright E2E suite (headless)                      |
| `yarn e2e:ui`       | Playwright in interactive UI mode                    |

> | `yarn e2e:headed`   | Playwright headed, visible browser                   |

Author: Fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — updated the `yarn start` row to "Angular dev server with hot reload (via Turbo)", which matches the actual `apps/lfx-one/package.json` script (`ng serve`). Dropped the misleading Express reference.

| `yarn commitlint`   | Validate commit message against Angular conventions  |

> > Always use `yarn`, never `npx`. The repo pins Yarn 4.x through `packageManager` — `npx` can resolve to the wrong binary.

Author: Fixed in commit `0ef60a69` — softened to: "For manual commands, prefer `yarn` over `npx`... Repo-managed tooling (e.g. `.husky/pre-commit` invokes `npx lint-staged`) may still use `npx` where already configured." Good point — the previous absolute phrasing did contradict the hook.

> > For manual commands, prefer `yarn` over `npx` — the repo pins Yarn 4.x through `packageManager`, so `npx` can resolve to the wrong binary. Repo-managed tooling (e.g. `.husky/pre-commit` invokes `npx lint-staged`) may still use `npx` where already configured.

Author: Already addressed in commit `0ef60a69` (previous iteration) — the guidance on line 33 was softened to: "For manual commands, prefer `yarn` over `npx` … Repo-managed tooling (e.g. `.husky/pre-commit` invokes `npx lint-staged`) may still use `npx` where already configured." The hook/docs contradiction is resolved.

## Shared Package

The `@lfx-one/shared` package centralizes types, constants, enums, utilities, and form validators consumed by both the Angular app and the Express server. The path alias `@lfx-one/shared/*` resolves directly to `packages/shared/src/*` during development (hot-reloadable, no rebuild needed).

Common import patterns:

```typescript

> import { formatDate, getRelativeDate, buildUrl } from '@lfx-one/shared/utils';

Reviewer: 🔴 **Critical — `buildUrl` does not exist in `@lfx-one/shared/utils`**

`packages/shared/src/utils/url.utils.ts` exports `isValidUrl`, `extractUrls`, `isValidDomain`, `normalizeToUrl` — there is no `buildUrl`. `git grep -n "export.*buildUrl" packages/shared` returns nothing. This is the same fabricated import that existed in main; the PR carries it forward into a new "Common import patterns" example that readers are likely to copy verbatim.

```suggestion
import { formatDate, getRelativeDate, normalizeToUrl } from '@lfx-one/shared/utils';
```

Author: Already fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` (pushed just before your review landed) — `buildUrl` was replaced with `normalizeToUrl` in the CLAUDE.md import example. Thanks for verifying against the actual exports.

> import { formatDate, getRelativeDate, buildUrl } from '@lfx-one/shared/utils';

Author: Fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — swapped `buildUrl` for `normalizeToUrl`, which is actually exported from `@lfx-one/shared/utils` (verified via `packages/shared/src/utils/url.utils.ts`). Good catch.

import { User, AuthContext } from '@lfx-one/shared/interfaces';

> import { MeetingValidators } from '@lfx-one/shared/validators';

Reviewer: 🔴 **Critical — `MeetingValidators` class does not exist**

`packages/shared/src/validators/meeting.validators.ts` exports standalone `ValidatorFn` factories like `futureDateTimeValidator()`, `editModeDateTimeValidator()` — not a `MeetingValidators` class. `git grep -rn "MeetingValidators" apps/lfx-one/src` returns zero matches, so no app code uses this name. The import will resolve to `undefined` and any `.validTitle`-style call will throw.

```suggestion
import { futureDateTimeValidator, editModeDateTimeValidator } from '@lfx-one/shared/validators';
```

Author: Already fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — CLAUDE.md:119 now imports `futureDateTimeValidator`, matching the actual function-based export in `packages/shared/src/validators/meeting.validators.ts`.

> import { MeetingValidators } from '@lfx-one/shared/validators';

Author: Fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — replaced the fictional `MeetingValidators` class with `futureDateTimeValidator`, which matches the actual function-based export in `packages/shared/src/validators/meeting.validators.ts`.

```

> Utilities split into **generic** helpers (date/time, string, url, file, form, html, color) and **domain** helpers (meeting, poll, survey, vote, rsvp-calculator, project, committee, badge, rewards, insights, etc.). See [Package Architecture docs](docs/architecture/shared/package-architecture.md) for conventions, import patterns, and the full howto for adding new items.

Reviewer: 🔵 **Minor — "howto" → "how-to"** (CodeRabbit nit, agreeing). Reads better as hyphenated.

```suggestion
Utilities split into **generic** helpers (date/time, string, url, file, form, html, color) and **domain** helpers (meeting, poll, survey, vote, rsvp-calculator, project, committee, badge, rewards, insights, etc.). See [Package Architecture docs](docs/architecture/shared/package-architecture.md) for conventions, import patterns, and the full how-to for adding new items.
```

Author: Already fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — "howto" updated to "how-to" on line 122.

> Utilities split into **generic** helpers (date/time, string, url, file, form, html, color) and **domain** helpers (meeting, poll, survey, vote, rsvp-calculator, project, committee, badge, rewards, insights, etc.). See [Package Architecture docs](docs/architecture/shared/package-architecture.md) for conventions, import patterns, and the full howto for adding new items.

Author: Fixed in commit `e5d4e10d` — updated "howto" to "how-to" on line 122. Thanks!

## Gotchas & Conventions

**Commits & PRs**

> - Follow Angular commit format: `type(scope): description`. Valid types: `feat, fix, docs, style, refactor, perf, test, build, ci, revert` — **`chore` is not allowed** by commitlint.

Reviewer: 🟡 **Major — Contradicts `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md`**

This line is factually correct: `@commitlint/config-angular` v20 does NOT include `chore` in its default `type-enum` (verified in `commitlint.config.mjs` — the config extends the angular preset with no override for `type-enum`).

However, `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md:11` still lists `chore` as valid:

> `Valid types: feat, fix, docs, style, refactor, perf, test, build, ci, chore, revert`

After this PR merges, the two docs contradict each other and Claude/agents reading the rule file will keep producing `chore(...)` commits that fail commitlint.

**Fix:** update `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md:11` in this same PR (or call out a follow-up explicitly in the PR description) so both files agree:

```markdown
- Valid types: `feat`, `fix`, `docs`, `style`, `refactor`, `perf`, `test`, `build`, `ci`, `revert` (`chore` is **not** allowed by `@commitlint/config-angular`)
```

Author: Fixed in commit `0ef60a69` — updated `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md:11` to remove `chore` and match CLAUDE.md, with a parenthetical noting `@commitlint/config-angular` excludes it. Both files now agree. Great catch on the cross-doc consistency.

> - Commit header is capped at **72 characters** (commitlint `header-max-length`).

Author: Thanks for flagging — I looked into this and the existing bullets are actually correct for `@commitlint/config-angular` v20+:

- **`chore` is not allowed**: v20 removed `chore` from the preset's default `type-enum` as part of the Angular convention cleanup. Verified locally with `yarn commitlint --from HEAD~1` — `chore(foo): bar` fails with `type must be one of [build, ci, docs, feat, fix, perf, refactor, revert, style, test]`.
- **`header-max-length: 72`**: the Angular preset ships this default; `commitlint.config.mjs` doesn't need to re-declare it. Commits with headers > 72 chars fail in this repo.

@audigregorie confirmed the same in their review thread on this line. Leaving the bullets as-is since they reflect the enforced behavior.

- Always use `git commit --signoff` (DCO enforced).

> - Pre-commit hooks auto-run `prettier`, `lint`, and `check-types` on staged files — **don't run `yarn format` manually** before committing.

Reviewer: 🔵 **Minor — pre-commit hook description is incomplete and slightly misleading**

Looking at `.husky/pre-commit`:

```bash
./check-headers.sh
npx lint-staged           # prettier + lint on staged files
yarn format:check         # whole repo
yarn lint:check           # whole repo
yarn check-types          # whole repo
```

The `format:check` / `lint:check` / `check-types` steps run on the **whole repo**, not just staged files. Also, "don't run `yarn format` manually" is a bit misleading — running it doesn't break anything, it's just unnecessary because `lint-staged` already prettifies staged files.

```suggestion
- Pre-commit hooks run `lint-staged` (prettier + lint on staged files) and then full-repo `format:check`, `lint:check`, and `check-types`. You don't need to run `yarn format` manually — `lint-staged` already prettifies staged files.
```

Author: Fixed in commit `0ef60a69` — rewrote the bullet to explicitly mention `lint-staged` is the only staged-scoped step and the other three (`format:check`, `lint:check`, `check-types`) run repo-wide. Also reframed "don't run `yarn format`" as "you don't need to" to avoid the false "breaks things" implication. Thanks for the precise diff.

> - Pre-commit hooks auto-run `prettier`, `lint`, and `check-types` on staged files — **don't run `yarn format` manually** before committing.

Author: Fixed in commit `0ef60a69` — rewrote the line to explicitly list what `.husky/pre-commit` does: `check-headers.sh`, `npx lint-staged` (staged-only), then repo-wide `yarn format:check`, `yarn lint:check`, and `yarn check-types`. Good catch on the scoping.

> - Pre-commit hooks auto-run `prettier`, `lint`, and `check-types` on staged files — **don't run `yarn format` manually** before committing.

Author: Fixed in commit `0ef60a69` — wording now matches `.husky/pre-commit` verbatim, including the staged-vs-repo-wide distinction and the "fix the reported issue and retry" guidance. Thanks for the detailed breakdown.

> - See `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md` for PR title / sizing / JIRA details.

Author: Already addressed in commit `0ef60a69` (previous iteration) — `.claude/rules/commit-workflow.md:11` was updated to remove `chore` and match this file. Both docs now agree. The bullets here are authoritative for commitlint-enforced behavior.

**Source hygiene**

- Every source file needs the MIT license header — `./check-headers.sh` validates and the pre-commit hook enforces.
- Never nest ternary expressions.
- Use `flex + flex-col + gap-*`, not `space-y-*`, for vertical stacking.
- All shared constants and interfaces live in `@lfx-one/shared` — no module-level consts or local `interface Foo {}` inside `apps/lfx-one/`.

**Architecture**

- Always reference PrimeNG's component interface when defining types — all PrimeNG components are wrapped in LFX components for UI library independence.
- Use direct imports for standalone components (no barrel exports).
- Authentication is selective: public routes (`/meeting`, `/public/api`) bypass auth, protected routes require it. Auth0/Authelia via express-openid-connect; custom `/login` handler with URL validation. Prefer user bearer tokens over M2M tokens except in genuinely public endpoints — see `.claude/rules/development-rules.md` for the M2M usage rules.

**Dev server**

> - Don't restart the dev server on code changes — hot reload handles it. Check logs instead.

Author: Fixed in commit `fff9f85d` — promoted the four subsection labels (**Commits & PRs**, **Source hygiene**, **Architecture**, **Dev server**) to `###` headings. Ran `markdownlint-cli2` locally against the updated file and it now reports 0 errors.
